You've learned about digital assets and how to encode
and decode that data to be stored on a blockchain.
Now that you've seen how raw data is stored,
how is it verified and why is that important?
To verify the integrity of these digital assets,
we'll need to check for ourselves.
This means we want to confirm that it contains the correct sequence of
bytes and that it has not been wrongfully accessed or altered.
Keep in mind here that integrity is only about making sure
that a given file is exactly the same as it was at its source.
It doesn't refer to the trustworthiness of that source,
only that the file was not changed.
In order to verify digital assets,
we'll need to understand the concept of proof of existence.
There's a couple different ways we could prove a digital document exists.
Two of them that we'll see in more detail are SHA256, and MD5.
Proof of existence is used to publicly proof
and authenticate any digital asset on the blockchain.
It does this by verifying its hash.
One thing that might be surprising is that it's not a form of
consensus like proof of work that we talked about before.
Think of it as a blockchain notary service.
In a traditional notary,
we need to take a document to an authorized person who notarizes or signs and stamps it.
When they do this, they claim they verified the document.
Similarly, proof of existence verifies the authenticity of documents on a blockchain.
Here's how it works at a high level.
Usually, when information about a digital asset is stored on the blockchain,
only its hash is saved.
The document itself is not stored on the blockchain.
This way, the private contents of the digital asset did not need to be publicly revealed.
The hash is linked to the time the document was submitted.
This way, you can later confirm the data existed at this time and verify it.
So, there's the basic ideas behind proof of
existence and how it can help verify digital assets.
Coming up, we'll look a little further into
these ideas and explore how they work in practice.